# ML-Classification-Bank-Telemarketing-Analysis

# Dataset
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/bank+marketing

After importing dataset to jupyter notebook, we conducted explanatory data analysis using graphs and charts to explore some relationship within dataset. But, we couldn’t find any convincing results and so, after conducting feature engineering on dataset we were able to find the attributes that were affecting output attribute the most and attributes which weren’t affecting the output variable much. Although, explanatory data analysis using graphs and charts helped us somehow in determining some of the relationship within the dataset.
After conducting explanatory data analysis using graphs and charts, we did data preprocessing to make data compatible with Machine Learning Algorithm. For data preprocessing, we encoded multiple categorical attributes. Then, we did feature engineering in R to find out the least significant attributes that doesn’t affect the outcome attribute. We found out that age and pdays were the two attributes that least affects the outcome variable and so, we dropped that attributes. 
After doing data preprocessing and feature engineering, we began with running Machine Learning classification algorithms. We used four Machine Learning Classification methods Decision Support tree, Random Forest, Logistic Regression and K-Nearest neighbor. We trained training data with these models and predicted the outcome of test dataset which had 4521 records. Then, we used classification report and confusion matrix to evaluate the outcome of these models based on their prediction accuracy. For decision support tree and K-Nearest neighbor we got 100% accuracy, that is, these models precisely predicted whether the customer whose record is in test dataset will make one-month deposit with bank or not. The confusion matrix and classification report for both are shown below. While, random forest algorithm predicted the outcome with 99% accuracy and logistic regression method with 89% accuracy.
